Good evening from the campus of Lynn University here in Boca Raton, Florida. This is the fourth and last debate of the 2012 campaign, brought to you by the Commission on Presidential Debates.
The audience has taken a vow of silence — no applause, no reaction of any kind, except right now when we welcome President Barack Obama and Governor Mitt Romney.
The first segment is the challenge of a changing Middle East and the new face of terrorism. I’m going to put this into two segments so you’ll have two topic questions within this one segment on the subject. The first question, and it concerns Libya. The controversy over what happened there continues. Four Americans are dead, including an American ambassador. Questions remain. What happened? What caused it? Was it spontaneous? Was it an intelligence failure? Was it a policy failure? Was there an attempt to mislead people about what really happened?
I’d like to hear each of you give your thoughts on that.
Mr. President?
We’ll get to that, but let’s give the president a chance.
I’m going to add a couple of minutes here to give you a chance to respond.
Let him answer…
Let me interject the second topic question in this segment about the Middle East and so on, and that is, you both mentioned — alluded to this, and that is Syria.
All right.
Governor, can I just ask you, would you go beyond what the administration would do, like for example, would you put in no-fly zones over Syria?
Well —
Can we get a quick response, Mr. President, because I want to…
May I ask you, you know, during the Egyptian turmoil, there came a point when you said it was time for President Mubarak to go.
Some in your administration thought perhaps we should have waited a while on that. Do you have any regrets about that?
Governor Romney, I want to hear your response to that, but I would just ask you, would you have stuck with Mubarak?
All right.
…you’re going to get a chance to respond to that, because that’s a perfect segue into our next segment, and that is, what is America’s role in the world? And that is the question. What do each of you see as our role in the world, and I believe, Governor Romney, it’s your chance to go first.
Mr. President?
Governor Romney, “wrong and reckless” policies?
Let me get back to foreign policy.
Can I just get back…
OK.
OK.
All right.
Governor…
Let me get — I want to try to shift it, because we have heard some of this in the other debates.
But can you do this without driving deeper…
All right.
Thirty seconds.
All right.
A lot to cover. I’d like — I’d like to move to the next segment: red lines, Israel and Iran.
So you’re — you’re saying we’ve already made that declaration.
Two minutes.
Let me ask both of you, there — as you know, there are reports that Iran and the United States a part of an international group, have agreed in principle to talks about Iran’s nuclear program. What is the deal, if there are such talks? What is the deal that you would accept, Mr. President?
Governor?
What if — what if the prime minister of Israel called you on the phone and said, “Our bombers are on the way. We’re going to bomb Iran.”
So you’d say it just wouldn’t happen?
OK. Let’s see what —
All right.
All right, let’s go. And that leads us — this takes us right to the next segment, Governor, America’s longest war, Afghanistan and Pakistan…
Governor, you get to go first.
With respect, sir, you had laid out quite a program…
We’ll give you — we’ll catch up.
Mr. President?
All right. Let me go to Governor Romney because you talked about Pakistan and what needs to be done there.
Let — let me ask you, Governor because we know President Obama’s position on this, what is — what is your position on the use of drones?
Let’s — let’s go to the next segment, because it’s a very important one. It is the rise of China and future challenges for America. I want to just begin this by asking both of you, and Mr. President, you — you go first this time.
All right.
Well, Governor, let me just ask you. If you declare them a currency manipulator on day one, some people are — say you’re just going to start a trade war with China on day one. Is that — isn’t there a risk that that could happen?
I think we all love teachers.
Gentlemen, thank you so much for a very vigorous debate. We have come to the end. It is time for closing statements,
Governor?
Gentlemen, thank you both so much. That brings an end to this year’s debates and we want to thank Lynn University and its students for having us. As I always do at the end of these debates, I leave you with the words of my mom, who said: “Go vote; it’ll make you feel big and strong.”