Good evening, I'm David Muir. And thank you for joining us for tonight's ABC News Presidential Debate. We want to welcome viewers watching on ABC and around the world tonight. Vice President Kamala Harris and President Donald Trump are just moments away from taking the stage in this unprecedented race for president.

And I'm Linsey Davis. Tonight's meeting could be the most consequential event of their campaigns, with Election Day now less than two months away. For Vice President Kamala Harris, this is her first debate since President Biden withdrew from the race on July 21st. Of course, that decision followed his debate against President Donald Trump in June. Since then, this race has taken on an entirely new dynamic.

And that brings us to the rules of tonight's debate: 90 minutes with two commercial breaks. No topics or questions have been shared with the campaigns. The candidates will have two minutes to answer questions. And this is the clock. That's what they'll be seeing. Two minutes for rebuttals and one minute for follow-ups, clarifications or responses. Their microphones will only be turned on when it's their turn to speak. No prewritten notes allowed. There is no audience here tonight in this hall at the National Constitution Center. This is an intimate setting for two candidates who have never met.

President Trump won the coin toss. He chose to deliver the final closing statement of the evening. Vice President Harris selected the podium to the right.

So let's now welcome the candidates to the stage. Vice President Kamala Harris and President Donald Trump.

Welcome to you both. It's wonderful to have you. It's an honor to have you both here tonight.

Good evening, we are looking forward to a spirited and thoughtful debate.

So let's get started. I want to begin tonight with the issue voters repeatedly say is their number one issue, and that is the economy and the cost of living in this country. Vice President Harris, you and President Trump [sic] were elected four years ago and your opponent on the stage here tonight often asks his supporters, are you better off than you were four years ago? When it comes to the economy, do you believe Americans are better off than they were four years ago?

President Trump, I'll give you two minutes.

We are going to get to immigration and border security during this debate. But I would like to let Vice President Harris respond on the economy here.

President Trump, I'll give you a minute here to respond.

Vice President Harris, I'll let you respond.

Mr. President, I do want to drill down on something you both brought up. The vice president brought up your tariffs you responded and let's drill down on this because your plan is, what she calls is a essentially a national sales tax. Your proposal calls for tariffs as you pointed out here, on foreign imports across the board. You recently said that you might double your plan, imposing tariffs up to 20% on good coming into this country. As you know many economists say that with tariffs at that level costs are then passed onto the consumer. Vice President Harris has argued it'll mean higher prices on gas, food, clothing medication arguing it costs the typical family nearly four thousand dollars a year. Do you believe Americans can afford higher prices because of tariffs.

Vice President Harris I do want to ask for your response and you heard what the president said there because the Biden administration did keep a number of the Trump tariffs in place so how do you respond?

President Trump, I'll let you respond.

President Trump, thank you. Linsey?

I want to turn to the issue of abortion. President Trump, you've often touted that you were able to kill Roe v. Wade. Last year, you said that you were proud to be the most pro-life president in American history. Then last month you said that your administration would be great for women and their reproductive rights. In your home state of Florida, you surprised many, uh, with regard to your six-week abortion ban because you initially had said that it was too short and you said, "I'm going to be voting that we need more than six weeks." But then the very next day, you reversed course and said you would vote to support the six-week ban. Vice President Harris says that women shouldn't trust you on the issue of abortion because you've changed your position so many times. Therefore, why should they trust you?

There is no state in this country where it is legal to kill a baby after it's born. Madam Vice-President, I want to get your response to President Trump.

Thank you, Vice President Harris.

Would you veto a national abortion ban if it came to your desk--

But if I could just get a Yes or No. Because your running mate jen--J.D. Vance has said that you would veto if it did come to your desk.

Vice President Harris, I want to give you your time to respond. But I do want to ask, would you support any restrictions on a woman's right to an abortion?

Vice President Harris--

President Trump, thank you.

We're going to turn now to immigration and border security. We know it's an issue that's important to Republicans, Democrats, voters across the board, uh, in this country. Vice President Harris, you were tasked by President Biden with getting to the root causes of migration from Central America. We know that illegal border crossings reached a record high in the Biden Administration. This past June, President Biden imposed tough new asylum restrictions. We know the numbers since then have dropped significantly. But my question to you tonight is why did the administration wait until six months before the election to act and would you have done anything differently from President Biden on this?

Vice President Harris, thank you. President Trump, on that point I want to get your response.

Let me just ask, though, why did you try to kill that bill and successfully so? That would have put thousands of additional agents and officers on the border.

I just want to clarify here, you bring up Springfield, Ohio. And ABC News did reach out to the city manager there. He told us there have been no credible reports of specific claims of pets being harmed, injured or abused by individuals within the immigrant community--

Let me just say here this--

[crosstalk] I'm not taking this from television. I'm taking it from the city manager--

Again, the Springfield city manager says there's no evidence of that.

--Vice President Harris, I'll let you respond to the rest of what you heard.

President Trump, I'll give you a quick minute to respond.

Let me continue on immigration. It was what you wanted to talk about earlier. So let's get back to your deportation proposal that the Vice President has reacted to as well. President Trump, you called this the largest domestic deportation operation in the history of our country. You say you would use the National Guard. You say if things get out of control you'd have uh, no problem using the U.S. military.

You also said you would use local police. How would you deport 11 million undocumented immigrants? I know you believe that number is much higher. Uh, take us through this. What does this look like? Will authorities be going door to door in this country?

President Trump, as you know, the FBI says overall violent crime is actually coming down in this country, but Vice President Harris I'll give you--

President Trump, thank you. I'll let you respond, Vice President Harris.

Vice President Harris, thank you.

President Trump, thank you. A really quick response here, Vice President Harris, on this notion of weaponization of the Justice Department.

Vice President Harris, thank you. Linsey?

Vice President Harris, in your last run for president [crosstalk]

President Trump--

We have a lot to get to. Linsey?

Vice President Harris, in your last run for president you said you wanted to ban fracking. Now you don't. You wanted mandatory government buyback programs for assault weapons. Now your campaign says you don't. You supported decriminalizing border crossings. Now you're taking a harder line. I know you say that your values have not changed. So then why have so many of your policy positions changed?

President Trump, your response.

President Trump--[crosstalk]

President Trump, we have a lot of issues that we have to get to. We're out of time. Thank you.

Linsey, thank you. We have an election in just 56 days. An--I want to talk about the peaceful transfer of power, which of course we all know was a cornerstone of our democracy and the role of a president in a moment of crisis. Uh, Mr. President, on January 6th you told your supporters to march to the Capitol. You said you would be right there with them. The country and the world saw what played out at the Capitol that day. The officers coming under attack. Aides in the West Wing say you watched it unfold on television off the Oval Office. You did send out tweets, but it was more than two hours before you sent out that video message telling your supporters to go home. Is there anything you regret about what you did on that day?

But let me just ask you--

But let me just ask you--

You were the President. You were watching it unfold on television. It's a very simple question as we move forward toward another election. Is there anything you regret about what you did on that day? Yes or no.

The question was about you as President, not about Former Speaker Pelosi. But I do want Vice President Harris to respond here.

Let me just follow up here--

Alright--

Mr. President--

We talked immigration here tonight. I do want to focus on this next issue to both of you. Because it really brings us, uh, this into focus. Truth, uh, in these times that we're living in. Mr. President, for three and a half years after uh you lost the 2020 election you repeatedly, uh, falsely claimed that you won, many times saying you won in a landslide. In the past couple of weeks leading up to this debate, you have said, quote, you lost by a whisker, that you, quote, didn't quite make it, that you came up a little bit short.

Are you now acknowledging that you lost in 2020?

But you did say that.

I did watch all of these pieces of video. I didn't detect the sarcasm, "lost by a whisker," "we didn't quite make it," and we should just point out as clarification, and you know this, you and your allies, 60 cases in front of many judges. Many of them--

--and said there was no widespread fraud.

Mr. President, thank you. Uh, Vice President Harris, you heard the President there tonight. He said he didn't say that he lost by a whisker. So he still believes, uh, he did not lose the election uh, that was won by President Biden uh, and and yourself. But I do want to ask you about something that's come up in the last couple of days. This was a post from President Trump about this upcoming election uh, just weeks away. He said, "When I win, those people who cheated," and then he lists donors, voters, election officials, he says "Will be prosecuted to the fullest extent of the law, which will include long-term prison sentences." One of your campaign's top lawyers responded saying, "We won't let Donald Trump intimidate us. We won't let him suppress the vote." Is that what you believe he's trying to do here?

I'll give you one minute to respond, Mr. President.

Mr. President --

Mr. President--

Mr. President, your time is up. We've got a lot more to get--to.

Turning now to the Israel-Hamas war and the hostages who are still being held, Americans among them. Vice President Harris, in December you said, "Israel has a right to defend itself" but you added, "It matters how." Saying, "International humanitarian law must be respected, Israel must do more to protect innocent civilians." You said that nine months ago. Now an estimated 40,000 Palestinians are dead. Nearly 100 hostages remain. Just last week Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said there's not a deal in the making. President Biden has not been able to break through the stalemate. How would you do it?

President Trump, how would you negotiate with Netanyahu and also Hamas in order to get the hostages out and prevent the killing of more innocent civilians in Gaza?

Vice President Harris, he says you hate Israel.

Vice President Harris--

Vice President Harris, thank you.

President Trump--

Thank you. We have a lot of issues to get to.

We'll be right back with much more of this historic ABC News presidential debate from the National Constitution Center right here in Philadelphia. Back in a moment.

[commercial break]

Welcome back to this historic ABC news presidential debate tonight. We're going to continue here, and I want to turn to the war in Ukraine. We're now 2 1/2 years into this conflict. Mr. President, it has been the position of the Biden Administration that we must defend Ukraine from Russia, from Vladimir Putin, to defend their sovereignty, their democracy, that it's in America's best interest to do so, arguing that if Putin wins he may be emboldened to move even further into other countries. You have said you would solve this war in 24 hours. You said so just before the break tonight. How exactly would you do that? And, and  I want to ask you a very simple question tonight. Do you want Ukraine to win this war?

And just to clarify here.

Mr. President,

Your time is up. Uh, uh,just to clarify the question, do you believe it's in the U.S. best interests for Ukraine to win this war? Yes or no?

All right.

I want to take this to Vice President Harris. I want to get your thoughts on support for Ukraine in this moment. But also as Commander-in-Chief, if elected, how would you deal with Vladimir Putin and would it be any different from what we're seeing from President Biden?

Vice President Harris Thank you. We heard from both of you on Ukraine tonight. Afghanistan came up in the last hour--

-- I wanted her to respond to something you said earlier.

Please I'll give you a minute here.

Vice President--

President Trump, thank you. You did bring up something, you said she went to negotiate with Vladimir Putin. Vice President Harris, have you ever met Vladimir Putin, can you clarify tonight?

We've talked about Ukraine and Vladimir Putin. I do want to talk about Afghanistan. It came up in the first hour of this debate.

I, I want to move on to Afghanistan--

President Trump--

Thank you. I want to turn to Afghanistan. It came up in the first hour of the debate, and we witnessed a, a poignant moment today on Capitol Hill honoring the soldiers who died in the chaotic withdrawal from Afghanistan. I do want to ask the Vice President, do you believe you bear any responsibility in the way that withdrawal played out?

Vice President Harris, thank you. President Trump, your response to her saying that you began the negotiations with the Taliban.

I want to move on.

President Trump, thank you. I want to move on now to race and politics in this country. Mr. President, you recently said of Vice President Harris, "I didn't know she was Black until a number of years ago when she happened to turn Black, and now she wants to be known as Black." I want to ask a bigger-picture question here tonight. Why do you believe it's appropriate to weigh in on the racial identity of your opponent?

But those were your words. So, I'm asking --

Vice President Harris, your thoughts on this?

Vice President Harris thank you. Linsey?

President Trump, this is now your third time --

Mr. President, thank you, your time is up. Linsey --

Vice President Harris, thank you. Let's turn to policy--let's turn back to policy.

President Trump, we have to move on. President Trump --[crosstalk]

Let's turn to policy, please?

President Trump we do have to--

President Trump, President Trump.

I'm sorry, we're going to move on, Vice President Harris. [To President Trump:] This is now your third time running for president. you have long vowed to repeal and replace the Affordable Care Act, also known as Obamacare. You have failed to accomplish that. You now say you're going to keep Obamacare. Quote, unless we can do something much better. Last month you said, quote, we're working on it. So tonight, nine years after you first started running, do you have a plan and can you tell us what it is?

So just a yes or no, you still do not have a plan?

Vice president Harris, in 2017 you supported Bernie Sanders' proposal to do away with private insurance and create a government-run health care system. Two years later you proposed a plan that included a private insurance option. What is your plan today?

Thank you--

I want to move to an issue that's important --

President Trump--

President Trump, thank you. We have another issue that we'd like to get to that's important for a number of Americans, in particular younger voters, and that's climate change. President Trump, with regard to the environment, you say that we have to have clean air and clean water. Vice President Harris, you call climate change an existential threat. The question to you both tonight is what would you do to fight climate change? And Vice President Harris, we'll start with you. One minute for you each.

Vice President Harris, thank you.

President Trump, thank you.

We'll be right back with closing statements from both of our candidates. An historic night, this ABC News Presidential Debate from Philadelphia. Back in a moment.

[commercial break]

The time has come for closing statements. And Vice President Harris, we begin with you.

Vice President Harris, thank you. President Trump?

President Trump thank you. And that is our ABC News presidential debate from here in Philadelphia at the National Constitution Center. I'm Linsey Davis.

And I'm David Muir. Thank you for watching here in the U.S. And all over the world. And from all of us here at ABC News, good night.